Retrieved UTC: 2026-09-23T11:01:32.208978+00:00
Requested URL: https://www.nve.no/about-nve/
Final URL: https://www.nve.no/about-nve/
HTTP status: 200
Method: fresh unauthenticated HTTP GET; HTML text extraction with BeautifulSoup get_text(" ", strip=True).
No forms submitted; no credentials used.

About NVE Publisert 16.03.2016
                    , sist oppdatert
06.07.2026 About NVE The Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE) is a directorate under the Norwegian Ministry of Energy. NVE - securing the future Since the early beginning of water driven saws and millstones, Norwegians have made use of our waterways for industrial purposes. Through innovative research and entrepreneurship, we succeeded in developing the knowledge needed to use our natural resources to produce electricity. Today Norway is one of Europe’s leading producers of hydropower. Ensuring a well-functioning interaction between nature and industry is exciting, but also challenging. Since the establishment in 1921, the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate’s (NVE) mandate has been to ensure that the development of Norwegian hydropower is both environmentally friendly, as well as beneficial to the Norwegian society at large. NVE is a directorate under the Ministry of  Energy and is responsible for the management of Norway’s water and energy resources. We also work to reduce the risk of damages associated with landslides and flooding. NVE believes in open dialogue with the local communities, and we make sure that all interested parties receive the required information. The directorate aims to ensure an integrated and environmentally sound management of the country’s water systems, promote efficient energy markets and cost-effective energy systems, and contribute to efficient energy use. We also bear the overall responsibility for maintaining national power supplies. NVE is involved in research and development (R&D) and international development assistance NVE is also the national centre for expertise in hydrology. In addition, with its expertise in systematic mapping and observation, NVE has become an important actor both in national and international climate research. NVE’s social mission has many facets. This brochure gives an insight in to the scope of our obligations, and the exciting challenges we face every day. Contact information Phone numbers and email adresses Facts Organizational chart (pdf) Brochure - About NVE
